---
title: About
layout: page
nav_order: 2
---

## Scope and Objectives
During steady-state periods of routine pathogen surveillance and translational research, microbial genome sequencing can be leveraged to address numerous questions about infectious diseases. These can range from descriptive studies of variants, lineages, and subtypes over time or between geographic regions to analytical risk assessment of mutations of concern and beyond. In these circumstances, collaborations between academic laboratories, healthcare providers, and public health departments can optimize and standardize protocols, develop and refine key research questions, and train their workforces to strengthen their skills in genomic surveillance. When an infectious disease poses an acute threat—locally or globally—and priorities in public health shift towards emergency response, subject matter experts in pathogen genomics must carefully balance accuracy and completeness of their analyses with increased constraints on time. Public health leaders must often act quickly, acting on the information they have available at the time when decisions about resources and funding must be made.

Genomic epidemiologists must be prepared to act within these time- and resource-constrained circumstances. When time, personnel, and resources are stretched thin, it is crucial to prioritize and execute the most impactful and informative analyses that are feasible in an environment of increased pressure. Emergencies will arise in which practitioners of pathogen genomics will not be able to complete all desired laboratory, bioinformatic, and epidemiological investigations before critical decision points. This resource, generated by the PGCOE network’s Response Base working group, serves as a decision support tool to guide network leadership and subject matter experts through difficult decisions on these priorities. While it does not provide a comprehensive, step-by-step protocol to perform pathogen-specific analyses, this guide does outline strategic directions for genomic epidemiological investigations during heightened public health response scenarios in which such methods may be applied. 

## Assumptions and Limitations
The analyses described here assume you have identified your pathogen of interest.  The Analyses listed here are advanced characterizations applied to a single pathogen of interest. For each analysis, a degree of difficulty has been assigned and resources, including subject-matter experts within the PGCoE network have been identified to help answer questions. Each jurisdiction/center may need to prioritize certain analyses based on expertise, time, and data available. Each analysis is also subject to important limitations and possibilities for bias. A jurisdiction/center should carefully consider these limitations and biases when making any interpretations of the results.